A domain name, such as www.freewebstore.org,
is the address that people use to find your
store online.
It's what you type into a browser's address
bar when you want to visit a specific website.
When a store is created, we automatically
provide a unique address for it, based on
the freewebstore.org domain name.
For example, something like www.freewebstore.org/mystorename.
You don't have to use this address, though,
and you're free to obtain your own domain
name at any time, and link that to your store
instead.
In fact, we recommend that you obtain your
own unique domain name, as, not only does
it give your store a more professional image,
it can also help your store perform a little
better on search engines, like Google.
There are a large number of websites that
you can use to cheaply register a domain name.
Some of the more popular choices include www.GoDaddy.com
and www.123-Reg.co.uk.
Both of these domain name registrars also
offer full DNS Management as standard, which
is something that will come in useful a little
later.
Once you've decided where you want to register
your domain name, you'll need to have a think
about what domain name you want to use.
All domain name registrars should allow you
to search for the domain you had in mind,
to check if it is available and find out if
it has already been registered by someone
else.
To help your store perform well on search
engines, it can be a good idea to include
words that you think your customers may search
for, if possible.
Domain names can't be bought; instead, they
are leased or hired for a set period of time,
typically 1 or 2 years.
When that time is up, the current owner has
the option to renew their registration.
Once you have found a domain name you want
to register, select the length of time you
want to register it for, and add it to your
basket.
Some domain name registrars also suggest other
similar domain names when you search, so make
sure that you are only registering the one
you want.
Once you have decided on your domain name
and have added it to your basket, continue
through the registration and payment process.
After you have registered your domain name,
you'll need to carry out a few "DNS" changes
to the domain name, in order to point it to
your store.
In this example, we'll take a look at how
to do this using the 123-Reg control panel,
but we also provide a video showing how to
manage the DNS of a domain name registered
through GoDaddy.
Once in the 123-Reg control panel, you'll
see a "Your domains" dropdown menu containing
your domain name.
With your domain name selected in the dropdown
menu, click the "Manage" button.
On the next page, select the "Manage DNS"
option under the "Advanced Domain Settings"
heading.
Then, click the "Advanced DNS" tab.
You'll then be shown a list of all current
DNS records. If your domain name still uses
the default settings, there should be two records
shown.
The first record shows an "@" in the
"DNS Entry" column.
We need to update this to change the numbers
shown in the "Destination/Target" column.
These number are known as an IP Address.
To do this, simply click on Pencil Icon on
the right, and the fields will become editable.
We can then update the "Destination/Target"
to use the following values:
91.201.200.10
Once that has been updated, click the "Save"
button.
The second record in the list shows "www"
in the "DNS Entry" column. We need to completely
remove this record and then create another
in its place.
To do this, click on the Trash Can icon to
the right.
Once that record has been deleted, we can
use the fields below to add a new entry.
In the "Hostname" box, enter "www".
Next, select "CNAME" from the "Type" dropdown
menu.
Finally, enter "shop.freewebstore.org." in
the "Destination" field. Please ensure that
you include the final "." at the end of
that address.
Some domain name registrars require it, others
don't, but it's best to try to include it.
If it isn't required, most registrars will
remove it for you or display a warning message
about it.
Once the DNS record has been entered, click
the "Add new entry" button.
It can take up to 48 hours for the DNS changes
to filter through and become active, although
it generally only takes a few hours.
Because of this, we recommend you take a break
at this point and return to attach your domain
name to your store a little later.
Once enough time has passed, login to your
control panel and visit the Marketing > Domain
Name section.
Just work through the steps shown on the page:
"Do you already have a domain name?" - yes.
In Step 2, you're asked where you registered
the domain name. We'll then show specific
help information, explaining how to carry
out the required DNS changes for that registrar.
As we have already done this, we can move
straight on to Step 3.
We just need to enter the domain name and
click "Continue".
The system then performs a check to make sure
the DNS changes have propagated.
In this example, we can see that the changes
have filtered through, so we just need to
confirm and the domain name will be attached
to the store.
If you encounter a problem at this stage,
you may simply need to wait a while longer
for the DNS changes to propagate. Remember,
this can take up to 48 hours.
If you continue to experience problems with
this, feel free to contact our Support Team,
and we'll do our best to help.
And that's it. Once attached correctly, you
should see your store when you visit your
domain name.